our program tonight was brought to us by
heather tishbein she is a personal
friend of chris's and um
so i'm going to ask her to introduce him
heather
thank you
dottie um
i'm just over
flowing with joy
to be able to um
share
my
not really friendship but my
acquaintanceship
uh with chris with my ions family
i i met chris um 20 years ago through
the holotropic breath work
network and stan groth
and i read his book back then dark
knight early dawn
steps to a deep ecology of the mind
and
got to participate with him in person in
a workshop
so
that was 20 years ago
then when his new book lsd and the
universe of the mind was advertised on
the shift network with the seven weeks
seminar i immediately signed up for that
and read the book
and participated in that seven week
program
in the intervening 20 years i had a a
health crisis and spent
a couple days in in a coma
off planet which i actually remember
that experience
and what chris describes as
kind of the over
the thematic energy of the mind of the
universe is exactly where i was and what
i experienced when i was off planet and
on life support
chris's work
[Music]
has had an impact
on my life around understanding who i am
as a human being on planet earth as as
both a part in the whole simultaneously
and i can't even put into the words the
help it's been in helping me coming
through
really
resolving and appreciating
i know this might sound weird but the
gift of early childhood sexual trauma
and um
but more importantly than all of this
deepening of understanding has been my
felt experience of genuine comfort
around when in his presence
and uh
and in the uh
in the world view that he puts forth in
this latest book
i just feel so much love and comfort
for chris bash in the world so it's with
immense gratitude
that i welcome chris to my ions family
here in southwest washington and beyond
well
thank you very much heather and thank
you everybody for inviting me here and
letting me be spend this time with you
so
let's get into it we'll see
where we go we have this topic we're
looking at today the birth of the future
human is a huge topic
so
we're going to have to trim it a little
bit and shape it but we're going to dig
into it i'd like to jump into it and see
how far we can actually
go into
the center of this issue
so first i'm going to share my screen
and
throw this powerpoint up here
okay
all right
and
it's is coming through for everybody
all
right
it
will come as no surprise to anyone in
this group let me move this down here a
bit
but we are a planet in crisis
everybody knows the list of challenges
that we are currently facing
we are confronting an escalating climate
crisis growing droughts and forest fires
more flooding and stronger hurricanes
our reservoirs are drying up and water
tables are collapsing
rising sea levels research is now
showing us that
we have already baked in by 2050 a
12-foot rise in the oceans
and we know from projections what that
means in terms of changing cloud flood
coastlines and uh
eco-refugees
we are facing the worst species
extinction since the extinction of the
dinosaurs we're dealing with fist fished
out oceans
extreme economic inequality
and unstable interlocked national
economies and weapons so powerful we
dare not use them
we are in essence
a world on fire
we are entering a time of planetary
emergency
move this up here a little bit there we
go a planetary emergency
and it's happening much faster
than we ever thought it would even ten
years ago
umar
hague a british economist wrote an essay
recently we are not going to make it to
2050 in which he says
quote skyrocketing inflation growing
shortages runaway temperatures
killing heat
failing harvest shattered systems
continents on fire and masses turning to
lunacy theocracy and fascism as a result
this is the condition we find ourselves
in
today what i'd like to do is offer a
perspective on these events that comes
from my psychedelic experiences reported
in my book lsd in the mind of the
universe
so first
i'd like to give a short overview to
give a context for the visionary
experiences that i'm going to be sharing
with you today
uh and i'm going to be touching on
my psychedelic work and and the book lsd
in the mind of the universe but i'm not
going to go into it in great detail
except for that portion of the book
having to do
with the birth of the future human
and you'll get a sense of it from my
initial comments and if you'd like to
invite me back for another time we can
spend the time going into
the overview of the book more deeply
so let's begin
ah yeah here we go
i should have thrown that up earlier all
right here we go now my work derives
from stan groff's work and these two
books changed the course of my life i
finished graduate school in 1978
and read realms of the human unconscious
at that time and my life pivoted
i did the work that i eventually did as
a philosopher
not a psychologist not a therapist i was
primarily trained in philosophy of
religion and was interested in the
philosophical potential of psychedelics
to explore the deep structure of
consciousness and through that the deep
structure of the universe itself
now in his work stan differentiates
clearly two different types of working
psychedelic therapy
low-dose psycholytic therapy and
high-dose psychedelic therapy
psychedelic therapy as it was practiced
at spring grove hospital in baltimore
was restricted to three sessions here
they were working with terminally ill
cancer patients and the focus was to try
to trigger something which approximated
a near-death episode to help them with
death anxiety they weren't trying to
heal them they were trying to help them
with the anxiety that arose arises when
as one is facing death
so i thought well okay if you can do
high-dose work
three times you can do it more than
three times
and what i ended up doing was 73
high-dose lsd sessions between 1979
and 1999
now this is a very aggressive protocol
it's not one that i would recommend
today knowing what i know today i would
do it differently where i starting over
again
but that's just what i did
i did this work as systematically and
rigorously as i could i followed the
same protocol and this is a therapeutic
focus i was always lying down with eye
shades with a sitter
i use the same substance the same dose
level the same sentence setting
same sitter same recording process even
the same location all of these variables
can influence one's experiences in
non-ordinary states
so it was a very stable
um
position
from which to engage in the dialogue
with the universe and communion with the
universe
i saw myself at the time simply doing
an extended course of psychedelic
therapy but when i got to the end of
this work and was looking back over it
as a whole i realized that there was
something different going on than was
described in the early literature on
psychedelic therapy this the protocol
may be the same but when you extend the
number of sessions as many as i did it
really unfolds into different challenges
and gives you different opportunities to
engage the universe
so i gave my work a different name
and i call it psychedelic exploration
the protocol is psychedelic therapy all
internalized sessions all working with
supported music so on and so forth
the difference is the number of sessions
in my case 73 sessions
now let me clarify further just i think
it's important to differentiate
especially
uh since there are many different uses
of psychedelics let me just mention
three of them
the first is the therapeutic the use of
psychedelics for therapeutic healing
which is of course our current focus in
the psychedelic renaissance taking place
now
second to that
is using psychedelics for spiritual
awakening not quite the same as
therapeutic healing but somewhat
different and this is actually why i
initially got into this work was to
accelerate what i thought of as my
individual spiritual enlightenment
but the protocol i adopted was so
powerful that it really took me
beyond healing and beyond spiritual
awakening into a process that i would
describe as cosmological exploration
i did this work
to explore the deep structure of the
cosmos itself i did this work as a
philosopher
i wouldn't do it the same way if i were
doing it again and i do not advise
people to do what i did but i came
through it i survived it a reasonably
impact
and now i'd like to share some of the
results from this work
i kept very careful detailed records of
my sessions always within 24 hours of
every session
and
i'd like to give a little bit of context
for the visions that i'll be sharing
when you do this work you go through a
death rebirth process that everybody is
familiar with the first one is is ego
death and this line here represents the
the horizontal line represents
of the align between physical matter and
spiritual reality are between ordinary
consciousness and transpersonal
consciousness
and the open line represents the vast
expanse that opens to us in
non-ordinary states of consciousness and
the drop at the bottom of the line
represents our individual egoic
awareness and that first circle that red
circle represents the death rebirth
process that takes place
in psychedelic work egoic death and any
spiritual practice where one is
transitioning one opens one's
consciousness beyond our individual ego
into the vast expanse
that lies beyond individual awareness
now ego death
catches most of the attention
in the literature today but what i found
in my work is that if you work
consistently with a very powerful
methodology like i did you go through
not one death
but many deaths as one goes deeper and
deeper into the universe one comes to a
series of thresholds a series of
gateways where one must go through yet
another death in order to enter into
this deeper level of existence
and it isn't simply a repetition of ego
death
it's really different a different kind
of death that reflects the different
levels of reality one is working at
now stan differentiation is writing
between psychic levels of trans personal
experience
subtle levels and causal levels
and i'm going to use that language i use
that language in my book but i don't
have any vested interest in any
particular
cosmology or cosmological ladder it's
the principle that is important that the
universe has many levels and s1 enters
into those levels systematic if you do
it systematically there is a gradual
unfolding level by level s1
goes deeper into the universe and into
these states of consciousness at least
that's how it manifested in my work it
doesn't necessarily have to be that way
for everybody
but that's the way it manifested for me
now when i got to the end of my work and
was beginning to crunch all of my
experiences and beginning to prepare for
the writing that i did on the basis of
those experiences i differentiated
five fundamental
levels or categories of experience or
levels of consciousness that my work
unfolded into
the first was one's personal mind one's
personal unconscious
the second is the species mind are the
collective unconscious
the third is archetypal mind
the fourth
causal oneness
and the fifth
diamond luminosity
and let me just very quickly go through
and place the chapters of my book in
that context just to give you a context
for what we're talking about
there's a chapter on crossing the
boundaries
which is basically telling the story of
crossing what stan groff calls the
perinatal level of consciousness
it involves ten sessions and two and a
half years of work
on the species mind
there is a chapter called the ocean of
suffering
and a chapter called deep time in the
soul
and it took me a total of about four
years to get to this point in my work
and at that point i stopped my work for
six years for reasons that i give in the
book
and i resumed it six years later
and when i did
the purification part of my session
which was the ocean of suffering began
exactly
where it had stopped six years previous
and i won't go into
i can't explain all of this in detail
but the ocean of suffering was opening
up to
vast territories of collective pain and
anguish which i first thought of as a
deepening of ego death but i later came
to understand
that i was tapping into or that
something was guiding in me in my
sessions to tap into
the memories of our collective suffering
that our species still stores
in the collective psyche anything which
is not integrated at the end of an
individual life gets stored at the level
of the collective psyche and the patient
in this work had become
not just me
but the patient had expanded to become
in some way
the entire
species of my family
when i resumed my work after the six
year hiatus the ocean of suffering began
exactly where it stopped but in the
ecstatic portion of my sessions i
entered a series of initiatory
experiences where i was taken by the
universe and given a series of
cosmological initiations it was like
cosmology 101
teaching me how the universe is
organized and structured in certain ways
eventually this work came to a
culmination
i went through yet another death and
rebirth process
and entered
what i came to call archetypal mind the
greater real in the chapter the greater
reel of archetypal reality and here i
talk about the quasiplatonic level of
archetypal consciousness and the
quasi-union level and i say
quasi-platonic because
it was it affirmed plato's core insight
that there was a reality behind the
reality of time and space which ordered
time and space but i did not experience
archetypes the way plato experienced
them i did not experience them as
eternal ideas in the mind of an
unchanging god but i experienced them as
vast living dynamic cosmological process
processes that were so large i could not
wrap my mind around them
at the quasi-union level i experienced
repeatedly dissolving
into the species mine and i was given
repeated instructions
on how
the collective unconscious or how the
species mind functions
as an integrated whole that all of our
individual minds are wired into this
vast collective mind in our individual
psychological issues and even our
physical diseases
are part of
the
psychological
stresses and strains and even the
diseases
of our entire species and that our
individual healing directly contributes
both physically and psychologically to
the healing of our species
then this work culminated after 18
months into yet another death and
rebirth process
which took me into causal oneness which
i described
in a chapter called a benediction of
blessings where i was given a year of
extraordinary
blessings of
oneness of non-dual consciousness of
shunyata
dissolving into the metacosmic void
experiences of profound cosmic love
it was truly
totally existentially life satisfying
time
and then i entered
into
the five years the last five years of my
work the diamond luminosity work
described in the chapter the diamond
luminosity
here i entered beyond
the collective psyche beyond uh even
the oneness of existence into a super
rarified celestial domain of exquisite
diamond light now i had known light many
times up to this point but this was a
higher order
of light than i had ever encountered
before
um
all right i'll just stop there and
and then i came into
the final piece of work the final year
of work the final vision
which then led to
the last chapter let me back up the last
chapter chapter 12 coming off the
mountain
now you see i've skipped the chapter
here and that's the chapter i really
want to focus on today
the birth of the future human i really
wish i had written this in a different
order the order should be a benediction
of blessings and then the diamond
luminosity and then the birth of the
future human followed by the final
vision but oh well this is the order in
which i wrote it
in the birth of the gospel
i summarize a series of visions
uh
experiences that i was given over many
years in the work i kind of pulled them
all out of different
sessions and consolidated them
into this particular story
the birth of the future human
all of those sessions that are
summarized in this chapter actually
began as far back as the initiation into
the universe material
and so on and so forth but i really
focused on the story uh her simplicity
in this particular chapter
so
what i'd like to do now
is focus on this theme
of the birth of the future human
and there are three components two of
them we're going to focus on today
the first one is a series of visions
that i call traditional awakening
it's a series of visions that i was
given
between 1991 in 1994 so you can
see how long ago this was this goes back
over 30 years
visions of where humanity was in its
evolutionary development
this was followed by a major session
that i call the great awakening
session which took place in 1995
which was then later followed by
the final vision
that occurred in the 70th session
very near the end of my 20-year journey
so what i want to focus on today
is the visions of awakening
and the great awakening
so first the visions
and paper
over the course of my work
dropped into my sessions scattered
throughout my sessions was a series of
visions that kept coming back to this
theme
of human evolution kept describing
the sit a situation
that humanity was entering and a turning
point that humanity was coming to in its
evolutionary destiny and i organized
these visions into a series of six
visions
which i give these names the visions of
divine love
all humanity
guiding intelligence
our species as a single being
collective purification
and the future human so what i'd like to
do is just go back first
and read you some excerpts from these
visions
and i can talk about these visions but i
think it might be
maybe a deeper way to transmit the
content of these experiences by actually
sort of sharing
some of the visionary material
themselves and i invite you
to enter into a
a receptive state you're welcome to
close your eyes a receptive state where
you can hear what i'm going to be
sharing with you
from a deeper than simply rational
place in in your consciousness
now i should tell you that my sense is
what i'm doing with you
is
reminding you of something that you
already know
what's it's not important
that i had these visions
if these are significant it's because of
what they tell us about humanity and
what they tell us about all of us and
all of the work that we are doing as we
incarnate uh in this generation
so
first
divine love
in this session which dates back to 1991
i was taken back to the beginning of
creation
and there experienced evolution in the
context of a larger cosmic agenda
suddenly i was overwhelmed by the most
extraordinary cosmic love
a love unlike anything i had ever known
to awaken to this love was to remember
a primordial decision that i had somehow
participated in
in fact i came to understand that all of
us
had voluntarily chosen to be part of the
evolutionary process of creation in
response to this divine love
i then experienced all the suffering
that humanity had endured throughout
history
as taking place inside this love
i realized that all the suffering
inherent in evolution
was noble beyond words
it was all part of a cosmic plan that we
had entered into voluntarily
along the way
and even
we'd entered into freely however
unconscious of this fact we had become
along the way
nobility of great suffering
voluntarily shouldered in the name of
divine love
suffering that would stretch across
millions of years
suffering that would become so
inscrutable that it would be used as
evidence that the universe was devoid of
compassion
this was the nobility of humanity's gift
to the creative intelligence of the
universe
all of the suffering that humanity had
endured and willing to
will endure in the decades ahead
you're part of a
conscientiousness there are no victims
here
second theme of all humanity
the quote from the session
the great difficulty i have is
describing the enormity of what is being
birthed
the true focus of this creative process
is not individuals but all humanity
it is actually trying to awaken the
entire species
out of the seething desires of history
out of the violent conflicts and
scheming of individuals and nations
there was now driving forward a new
awareness in human consciousness
its birth in us is no less difficult or
violent than the birth of a new
continent
it drives upward from the floor of our
being requiring a transposition
of everything that has gone before
in order to make room for its new
organizational patterns
what is emerging in history is a
consciousness of unprecedented
proportions
the entire human family
integrated in a unified field of
awareness
the species reconnected with its
fundamental nature
our thoughts
tuned to source consciousness
the scale of what i was witnessing
took my breath away
the third set of visions
i saw humanity climbing out of a steep
valley and just ahead on the other side
of the mountain was a brilliant
sun-drenched world that was about to
break over us
the time frame was enormous
and i should mention perhaps i should
have mentioned sooner that
time became very porous in my work first
time opened up in terms of my personal
life but then time opened up in terms of
our species life our planetary life and
the life of the cosmos itself so i was
regularly taken into vast trans-temporal
landscapes
after millions of years of struggle and
ascent
we were poised on the brink of a sunrise
that would forever change the condition
of life on this planet
all current structures would quickly
become irrelevant
all truths would quickly be rendered
passe
truly a new epoch was dawning
the lives of everyone living in this
pivotal time in history we're helping to
bring this global shift about
as i witnessed this scene i saw that
though we did not know the deep future
at a personal level
there was a more encompassing level of
consciousness that could see it very
clearly
this was a deeply moving and clarifying
experience
individually we humans could not see
what was coming and so did not
understand why things are the way they
are
yet isolated from the future
the present makes absolutely no sense
to be ignorant of what is being built
would be to be fundamentally blind
and our species is not blind
there is an intelligence
in it
preparing us guiding us an intelligence
that knows the future and is preparing
us for it as systematically as we
prepare our homes for the changes of
seasons
next
our species as a single being
i was taken deeper into the unified
field of existence and experienced the
dynamics of humanity's awakening as
movements being initiated and
orchestrated by a single integrating
intelligence
i experienced the evolution of our
species at the systematic growth of a
single organism
a unified being that all of us were part
of
the subtlety of the
cooperation of the parts with the whole
was extraordinary
to experience the incredible diversity
of our species as a single unified field
made many events clearer
new patterns sprang into view
and the patterns made transparent sense
nothing in our theological or
philosophical systems does justice to
the facts
what i then saw was that the unified
field of humanity was moving decisively
and precipitously to become more aware
of itself
whereas previously it had existed in an
assinix in as an extended fabric largely
unconscious of itself
now it was waking itself up
visually this took the form of energy
coming together in swift contractive
spasms that created bright flashes of
awareness
i repeatedly saw extended webs of energy
suddenly contract and explode in
brilliant flashes
in the past these flashes had been
swallowed by the inertia of the
collective psyche and had not endured
now however the flashes were beginning
to hold their own and to connect with
each other
with other flashes occurring
around the planet
divisions
address collective purification which i
think is
a particularly important
concept in order to understand what's
happening in history in this century
when an organism is called on from
within to become more conscious
it must first cleanse itself
of the psychological byproducts of
living at its lower level of awareness
it must bring forward the residue of its
past and purge that residue from its
system in order to lay the foundation
for a more refined level of operation
our syst our species was doing this in a
wholesale manner and with great
determination by crystallizing within
itself
generations that embodied our toxic
legacy
it was the coordinated exercise of the
self-evolution
of the species as a whole
the poisons of humanity's past were
being brought to the surface in us
and by transforming these poisons in our
individual lives
we were making it possible for divine
awareness to enter more deeply into
future generations
we had volunteered for this role for
both our personal good
and the collective good
i saw that this century formed a
watershed into which the karmic streams
of history were flowing
and that as the process came to fruition
the future condition of our species
would be beyond anything that we might
project
from our current state of fragmentation
the present form of humanity is
transitional as sri aurobindo said
we are cells in a super organism
intent on rapid change
our very constitution the form of our
species is a stage in a larger
evolutionary journey
lastly
the future human
at one point
i was given a brief experience of the
future human we are becoming
i was carried deep into the distant
future and allowed to experience what
will be the abiding state of humanity at
that time
what a magnificent being
just touching it filled me with rapture
calm
and sheer delight
it felt clear
warm and whole
there was an abiding sense of oneness
that was deeper than just the feeling of
being interconnected
it was a feeling of being truly one
underneath the diversity of life
such expansiveness
such breadth of being
it was spiritually embodied realization
the tantric awakening of our entire
species
spirit and matter in perfect balance
this penetrating glimpse transfixed me
its beauty
grandeur and
simplicity pierced my heart
the net result of all of these
experiences
was to give me a deep understanding
of the challenge that humanity was
entering the challenging period of
history that we were ending and what was
going on underneath the surface of
historical events
and it focused me on the question
how
can the entire species be awakened as
i've seen
what would it actually take
for the whole of humanity to make this
quantum jump in awareness
i had been shown over and over again in
many different forms that this was the
project of history at this point
but nowhere was i shown how it would be
accomplished
at this point
i entered into the diamond luminosity
work
where about once a year once every five
sessions or so i entered into a deep
state
of
mystical absorption into the crystalline
body of the divine
i had entered into two such experiences
in the 40th and 45th sessions
and i was expecting in the next session
the 55th session to enter into the
diamond luminosity again
but instead that's that's not what
happened
instead
in
as my family and i were preparing for
the christmas holidays
i had an experience of in a session
in that i came to call the great
awakening session
i experienced what i'm going to describe
not as an individual but as the entire
species
i had been dissolved into the collective
unconscious so many times and at so many
different levels
and all of that seemed to be preparation
for what unfolded itself in this session
this session was so deep and so
challenging and so difficult to navigate
uh that it it really took years
uh for me to assimilate it uh
fully into my life
i was dissolved into the collective
psyche and i experienced what humanity
as a whole would experience
in the decades ahead
so let me share with you
the core scenario
pulled out of this visionary experience
in a field of relative calm
a small anxiety began to grow
slowly people were looking up and
becoming alarmed
humanity was gradually waking up in
alarm to events that had overtaken it
conditions got worse and worse
people became more and more frightened
as the danger increased
forcing them to let go of their
assumptions at deeper and deeper levels
there was less and less people for
people to hold on to fewer givens that
they could assume
how they would live
where they would live
what they would do for a living
how society was organized
what could be possessed
the world as they knew it
was falling away
decades were compressed into minutes and
i felt the people's fear deepen as they
had more as they lost more and more of
what they had considered
the normal and necessary structures of
their world
step by step events were forcing a rapid
reassessment of everything in their
lives
the events that had overtaken earth were
of such scope that no one could insulate
themselves from them
the level of alarm grew in the species
field until eventually everyone was
forced into the melting pot of mere
survival
we were all in this together
families were torn apart
parents from children their children and
children from each other
life as we had known it was shattered at
the core
we were reduced to simply trying to
survive
for a time it looked as though we would
all be killed
but just when the storm was at its peak
the worst of it passed and the danger
slowly subsided
though many had died
many were still alive
as the survivors began to find each
other
new social units began to form
parents and children from different
families joined to form new types of
families
everywhere new social institutions
sprang into being that reflected our new
reality
new ways of thinking
new values that we had discovered within
ourselves during the crisis
every aspect of our lives was marked by
new priorities new perceptions of the
good new truths
these new social forms reflected new
states of awareness
that seemed to spread through the
survivors like a positive contagion
these new social forums then fed back
into the system to elicit still newer
sites states of awareness in people and
the cycle of creativity between the
individual and the group
spiraled
the entire system was becoming alive at
new levels
and this aliveness was expressing itself
in previously impossible ways
it was as if the eco-crisis had
triggered the myelinization of nerve
cells in our species brain
allowing new and deeper levels of
self-awareness to spring into being
repeatedly there was the message
these things will happen faster than
anyone can anticipate
because of the hyper arousal of the
species mind
thousands of fractal images drove this
lesson home again and again
faster than anyone can anticipate
the pace of the past was irrelevant to
the pace of the future
my visions did not give me
any details
about how
or when this would take place except
that we were entering a profound global
systems crisis
that was being triggered by a series of
of ecological crises around the planet
and this was of a scale and a magnitude
that was historically unprecedented
i was also shown many teachings that i
won't go into now but are in
darknet early dawn and in lsd in the
mind of the universe
that
point that showed me
gave me insights into the dynamics of
the collective psyche that basically the
suffering that we were entering into was
so widespread and so profound that it
would impact not just individuals but it
would actually reach through the lives
of the individuals to impact the
collective unconscious itself
and it would drive the collective psyche
into what a scientist might call
non-linear conditions
and just as physical systems when they
are driven into non-linear conditions
can do remarkable things seemingly
impossible things
likewise the human psyche the collective
psyche when driven into non-linear
conditions hyper-aroused by the
suffering of its people
in that condition
it was capable of doing previously
impossible things
in this respect
the suffering that we are entering into
and it's certainly not punishment and
it's not a sign of failure but it's
actually instrumental in helping us let
go of the past and let go of our narrow
petty egoic history and enter into a
deeper communion with the creative
process of the universe
now this brings me to the next question
of
what form
will the future human take
because i think we're going through a
transformation which is so deep it's not
simply a civilizational turning point
and it's not simply a
destruction and rebirth of our economy
in our industrial culture
to a greener planet and a greener
culture and a greener body politic
it is a transformation which is actually
reaching deep into the fundamental
substructure of the human psyche the
crisis we are entering is a crisis of
consciousness in that respect it's an
evolutionary consciousness because we
can no longer afford the luxury
of a planet which is being run by egos
with the sense of
separate private our separate private
existences
even well-intentioned egos
we need to grow into a deeper
more mature
sense of self for this planet
in my understanding my context for
understanding the future human is
reincarnation
now my first book life cycles was about
reincarnation i considered an absolutely
fundamental concept
and i think it's a concept which we have
ample empirical evidence to document i
think that the issue of reincarnation
has over the last 50 years moved from a
speculative theological
table to an empirical psychological
table i think ian stevenson and other
researchers have given us a vast
quantity of evidence that should
convince any clear thinking critical
person that reincarnation is a fact of
life
but in the course of my sessions i was
given an understanding of reincarnation
that seemed to go beyond
the way that idea is presented in the
eastern and even western mystical
traditions
classically
reincarnation is presented as a
an individual form of individual
evolution where we make choices we
inherit the consequences of those
choices we grow incrementally step by
step becoming more compassionate
more respectful
more intelligent over long long periods
and thousands of lifetimes but
eventually mature
into a spiritual awakening we come into
a spiritual awakening where we make
contact with we
resume a deep experience of our inner
divine nature and at that point
we can leave time and space the hindu
term for this experience was moksha
escape
escape not only from ego but escape from
time and space itself
in buddhism nirvana
is followed at death by the deeper state
of paris nirvana final nirvana which is
carrying on beyond a type of
enlightenment that goes beyond physical
existence
all of the cosmologies of the last 5 000
years
in both western and eastern traditions
have been basically what i would call up
and out cosmology
the goal is to achieve some type of
fundamental transition either
salvation or enlightenment
so that when you die you can leave time
and space
behind but that leaves of course
unanswered the question what is the
purpose of space and time to begin with
what does the creative intelligence when
before the creative intelligence
manifested space and time
what
what was it thinking why did it do so
what is the purpose of space time itself
the
understanding of reincarnation and the
experience of reincarnation that
developed in my sessions
basically
uh
outlined a different trajectory
there was one particular session
where
and i had done i had done past life
therapy and i was familiar with the
number of my previous lives and i had
worked in healing them and i had written
life cycles 20 years before
but i came into a session where
suddenly all my former lives began to
come into me and to begin to wrap
themselves around me it was like
wrapping a filament of white light
around a kite spool
until eventually
all of those lies fused into one
and when they fused into one
a brilliant diamond light exploded from
my chest and i was catapulted into a
state of consciousness far beyond
anything that i had ever experienced
before up to that time
i was both an individual
but i was an individual within a frame
of within a context in the frame of
consciousness beyond anything that i had
ever known previously
and i came to call this
the birth of the diamond soul
and i think this is the fundamental
trajectory of human evolution that we
have been incarnating for thousands and
thousands and hundreds of thousands of
years
we
and in this evolutionary process we have
been growing and growing and growing
and we are coming to a point where the
next step
in our evolutionary development is not
simply taking
one more
evolutionary step in this long
evolutionary progression but actually is
a
a fusion a coming into an integrating
first healing and then integrating all
of our former lives into a single
consciousness a consciousness that we
can call the soul
the consciousness i think we return to
soul consciousness after we die after
incarnation
we expand into the soul we contract into
egoic awareness we expand into the soul
we contract and if we keep this up
over and over again thousands and
thousands of years eventually sooner or
later
the soul
the large consciousness that holds all
of our experience
awakens
inside
time and space and when the soul awakens
inside time and space
heaven is born on earth
and there is no felt need to go
elsewhere
i think all of the up and out
cosmologies are basically incomplete
cosmologies that made sense in the time
in the context in which they were born
but i think they are an incomplete
vision of what the project of existence
is
young souls
become old souls
old souls eventually become
complete souls
and that's what i think of as the birth
of the diamond soul
now many people have had these visions
they have had this understanding they
use different words to describe it
some people talk about homonoeticus
homoluminense
homo spiritualist but there are so many
people who have this deep intuition that
we are on the cusp of a major transition
in the human story
and i think this transition is literally
the birth of the diamond soul
inside history
and this is taking place not just for
individuals not just with individuals
but it's taking place
for the entire species we are in the
process of giving birth to a new species
on this planet
and the nature of this species is
implicit in the history that we have
that we bring to this event
in order to
solve the crisis that we are entering
into in history
we desperately need to grow up as a
species
in this context from a reincarnational
perspective growing up means owning and
integrating the larger consciousness
that has been gestating within us for
thousands of years
owning it
seeing the world through its eyes and
letting its accumulated wisdom shape our
choices
the soul lives in history differently
than the ego
the soul knows that its relationship
with this planet extends beyond the
limits of its present life
it knows that the earth we leave behind
is that the is the earth we will inherit
in our next incarnation
it knows this
and it acts accordingly
so to summarize the core vision that
came through my sessions
humanity i think is coming into a time
of profound transformation a time of
planetary compression and accelerated
development
a deep shift in the collective
unconsciousness of our species is taking
place
a shift in the archetypal blueprint of
humanity
a shift that's taking place literally
kind of in the it's a plate tectonic
shift in the collective psyche
and one way of describing this is
a it is a profound awakening
into the truth of oneness
but not an awakening that dissolves the
individual but awakening that liberates
the individual into a deeper and higher
sense of participation
in not only the human community but also
into the celestial community
for there to be a great awakening like
this there must first take place a great
death
and this death is all about purification
it's all about letting go healing and
letting go of all the
terrible things that we've done to each
other for all the attitudes that have
divided
oneness and all the the
hatreds and the animosities
and the racism and the genderism and the
speciesism that has clouded
uh the earlier stages of human evolution
we must surrender our smallness the
ego's constant self-cherishing with all
of its divisions
between
people
races religions classes nations and even
species
i believe we are entering the dark a
dark night of our collective soul
a time of emptying a time of intense
anguish
of progressive loss of control
and systematic breakdown
a time of global purification
unto death that will last generations
but through this hard labor
we will give birth to something
extraordinary
more than just a new civilization
what is emerging is nothing less than a
new order of human being
through the global systems crisis
our planet is giving birth to the future
human
a higher form of humanity
the diamond soul is being born in
history and we are all part of this
transformation
thank you very much
yeah
okay
i'll stop this share now yeah
wow
that was amazing chris thank you so much
i mean i
personally know the truth of what you're
saying
from my own intuitions and my own ex
brief experiences
yeah well thank you so much
so let's open it up uh let's take a take
a minute to breathe i guess and then
let's open it to questions and
conversation
and if you'd like to start just unmute
and
speak
yeah i really do see myself
just reminding you of things you already
know
things you knew before you incarnated my
sense is that everybody chooses every
one of us has chosen to incarnate
voluntarily that we chose the
incarnation that we are now in knowing
beforehand what we were getting into
we may have forgotten once we incarnate
but we knew before we were born and we
will remember when we die it's that we
are all
carefully placed in order to participate
in this collective transformation
[Music]
beautiful
chris this whoops
this is johnny jonay
um and
i this is this is absolutely beautiful
and i kept thinking all the way through
what do i do with what i just learned in
terms of science
and uh the new dna testing that's been
done
epigenetics the fact that we have the
same
genome as
the um
[Music]
what's called um
uh inadequately and anatomically modern
humans back in the 200 000 period time
and what and what i'm coming to is that
this is all
this is all when it when it actually
comes out i mean most people don't even
know about it yet but when it actually
comes out it's preparing us
it's preparing it's giving us what we
have right now
and it's giving us the opportunity to
move on from there that's kind of the
way i look at it and i le the one thing
i kept thinking all the way through how
long is this going to take and you
answered it in the end it's going to go
through several generations or maybe
many generations
but this is where we
this is where we jump off and fly
and
move
and you know i don't have any
visionary
experience of how long or the how or the
details i wasn't given that kind of
detail so for that i have to go to the
experts like everybody else i have to go
to the scientists who are really
plotting
uh the escalating climate crisis that we
are entering in the social sciences who
are
looking at the broader social and
political ramifications to these crises
but my sense is that the 21st century is
pivotal
i mean by by 2020 by 2050.
well first let me recommend effort and
you notice that i haven't talked about
what can we do how do we respond to this
crisis how do we participate in it and
we can talk about that but one of the
people who has thought extensively about
this and written about it beautifully is
dwayne elgin
and his latest book his most recent book
is his book choosing earth
and he's a social activist
he's an evolutionary thinker and a
futurist
and his wife has created a film
uh based on the book called facing
adversity
choosing earth and it's both
dwayne is giving away the book and his
wife is giving away the film you can
find you can get a pdf from amazon on
the book and you can find the film
online
in the in the book
dwayne outlines
what science is say telling us about the
next five decades
you know and each of those decades the
crisis deepens precipitously
and we are now in the decade of
the
the great on the falling the falling
apart
beginning of a sense of falling apart
institutional values systems are falling
apart this will continue to accelerate
into the great unraveling
i'm sorry let me back up the great
unraveling followed by the falling apart
followed by the the deep crash
by the time we get to 2050
we're going to be looking at a deeply
profoundly different
world than we are now and so my sense is
that
this evil this crisis of near extinction
because we are looking at you know when
you really look at the people who are
looking at the numbers and how many
billions of human beings are going to
likely to be dying as we run into
shortfall of harvest and and so on and
so forth
we are looking at a near extinction
event and extinction is a tremendous
accelerator of evolution
so my sense is if we don't make it this
transition in this century or close to
this century
we very well might not make it at all
so i do expect it to take several
generations but i do expect the 21st
century to be focal
in this transition
thank you
gene
i see that you have your hand up
uh you're on mute gene
okay
there sorry about that there you go yeah
i mentioned in the chat that in 2007 i
met a channeler who
who wrote about this
and um
in a lot of detail
and he gives it gives all gives it for
free
will share his information for free
um it's not for profit
but
it's just that it's it's nature
cleansing itself
in preparing us for the next step
and we're all we're always stuck in our
minds
but what we need to do
is be present with each other says
who's ever going to be left through all
these processes
we just have to show up for each other
and solve the problems
and moment by moment
because all we have is each moment
and if we're stuck in our minds and
isolating
from each other in our houses
in our jobs
we're not going to be there to support
each other look what's happened in
kentucky or any of these places where
there's a disaster we're in the middle
of a disaster
in a disaster
isn't it's not time for planning it's
time for
doing so we have to really just
when somebody needs something
do it for them help what whatever we can
do to help each other because it's hard
yeah
we have to become
the human being that the world needs
right now
both on an internal level we have to
face our shadow we have to heal our
shadow we have to become more whole
within ourselves but also on a political
level on a social level
i think there's a synergy between
the world is trying to become one
to grow past the nation's status the
nation-state idea it's trying to become
one and there's a synergy between our in
our soul is trying to become one
we carry the history of humanity inside
us
as well as our society carrying it
outside of us
so as the world is trying to become one
and we are trying to become one there's
a synergistic dance between inner and
outer here
and so
this are stepping into this means
stepping into it and each of us has a
little bit of a different way of
stepping into it because we all carry a
different karmic agenda we all undertook
different responsibilities as we
incarnated there is both an internal and
an external a psychological and a social
dimension to this transformational
process
and uh we are we are the earth
yeah we are of the earth we're so we're
attending
tending our gardens
and
uh
this other channel that i was talking
about his name is john tedimer says
we're going back to
an agrarian society whatever whatever in
humanity is left
to be one with the earth to be work in
harmony with the earth and
evolve again from there in a
equal
symbiotic
yeah instead of raping earth
and in that context let me just mention
that some people have asked me why do
you focus on human beings so much and
don't talk about experiences of other
species and of course many people who
work with psychedelics in a shamanic
kind of context of many experiences of
with other species
and
i've had a few of those experiences but
the main track for me has been working
with the humans the collective human
psyche and i think this is because
humanity is the greatest threat to life
on this planet right now
and if we can heal the human species
then all the other species on the planet
will be safe
and it's not that i don't respect
i don't think they're inferior to human
beings or so on so forth they absolutely
are just as precious as human beings are
but in order to
ensure their well-being
we have to heal humanity
we're the ones that are destroying them
yes they were here first
yeah
so regina you have your hand up
yes thank you so much
uh
i wanted to know how you would do it
differently
that you
would do it differently now i'm just
curious
uh
i would
very um the dose level i would work with
high doses sometimes but low doses at
other times i would also balance
lsd with
other
psychedelics like psilocybin or
ayahuasca each of those psychedelics all
of them have in common the amplifying
effect of amplifying the sensitivity of
consciousness but they do so in slightly
different ways they kind of bring out
different aspects of the spectrum of
consciousness so that lsd tends to sort
of drive towards the high cosmological
ceiling
psilocybin
tends to sort of be work closer to the
emotional body closer to the physical
body ayahuasca tends to do that as well
and bridge a little bit step further and
deeper out so i would balance
um
high doses versus low doses synthetic
psychedelics and organic psychedelics
and i don't think there is a
fundamental core difference between
synthetic and organic psychedelics but i
would just differentiate those two here
and one of the other reasons i would do
it differently
is because i thought when i began this
work first i thought this was all about
my personal
transformation well well that was that
went out the window it
it's not about personal transformation
it's about our collective transformation
but i also thought that
the goal was to get to some end state
you know people talked about becoming
one with god or becoming entering into
the primal void or
somehow reaching some end condition
and so i drove hard to reach that end
condition but the way it worked is that
every time i would get into what
appeared to be a homecoming state or an
absolutely soul-satisfying existential
bliss
by keeping driving i would be taken into
yet another level of consciousness and
yet another level of consciousness until
eventually i had one pivotal experience
in my 50th session
where i was shown that it's an infinite
progression
you'll never reach the end of it the
divine fabric is an infinite fabric
and that's so one of the reasons i would
sh i would do it differently is because
i'm
i think the goal is not to reach some
destination or some end state the goal
is to become transparent
and to let as much of the of the divine
into our lives as possible and to live
in that abiding and to deepen that
abiding communion so i'm i was a young
man when i did this work i'm a little
more patient with the slower methods of
transformation
than i was when i did it
thank you for that because i've been
coming to that realization myself and
it's like there is no end it's forever
it is forever that in itself is very
difficult to put your mind around it's
like
yeah
so
i guess i would for myself say that is
the ultimate surrender to be able to do
that yeah
and whatever transition we're going
through in this next hundred years or
whenever whatever we're going through
it's not the end point for the human
story right we're going to be on this
planet for millions and millions of more
years if we survive this potential
extinction event
and so
we're going to keep growing we're going
to go beyond the diamond soul we're
going to keep growing and growing and
growing the creative intelligence of the
universe does not seem to think in small
scale
it thinks its landscape is vast it it
thinks in
galactic proportions it thinks in
magnitudes of time far beyond
what we've even begun to
try to conceptualize
in our religious traditions of the world
i think science has basically erased the
blackboard and given us a completely
larger landscape
it
which as our experience of this
landscape deepens we're going to have a
deeper understanding of the intelligence
that saturates this landscape in a way
that even science is a hard time
admitting today but it's getting there
yeah
just the thing of impatience alone
just that one thing alone
yeah
how different it would be if we really
truly were just able to be
yeah
victoria you have your hand up
yeah um
well you keep moving around on my screen
such a
deep experience felt like every cell in
my body was saying
yes and so i wonder if
the um the two questions that are
personal so if you'd be willing to talk
about it just uh your ability to
really trust
what has your experience has been and
what has been shown to you
and then how you um
[Music]
incorporate that i guess in the moments
of your life
you know it's it's like okay what do we
do this moment next moment next moment
you know uh
one of the things one of the great gifts
i got from stan groth
was the understanding that when you go
into these deep
cathartic
high amplified states of consciousness
you're going to start to go into get
into stormy weather you're going to get
into hard challenging circumstances
things are going to unravel on you
and you're going to
have an instinct to pull back you know
this is a bad trip you just don't want
to be here this is a terrible terrible
thing to happen but if you are willing
to embrace it if you give yourself over
to it if you let it take you wherever it
wants to take you even though you do not
understand it at all you do not
understand what's happening you don't
understand the logic of the whole thing
but if you surrender to it
it'll take you into a crisis which
eventually peaks
and then some part of you will fall away
you'll you'll go through some type of
death
and then you will awaken into a
different reality as a different being
with a different set of capacities in a
deeper level of the universe
so that you learn
to trust the cycle it is a cycle process
so that you you open
you engage you surrender
and then you are reborn and you bring
back the entire cycle of both the trauma
and
the ecstatic rebirth
that is a that develops a kind of trust
which
you learn by practicing it you learn by
doing it and today now as i have backed
away from doing this work i mean i
stopped my intense work in 99 so i've
had
a long time to live with those
experiences
which will bring me to your second
question
and as i've watched the shadows of
history deepen
i have to fall back on this deep trust i
mean it's i fall back on it because
i don't know how the universe is going
to work out what i've just seen tips of
i don't know how it's going to do it and
and my heart reaches out in compassion
to the billions of people that are on
the planet going through very very
challenging circumstances
in the end
you either trust or you don't trust
i choose to trust that the creative
intelligence knows what it's doing
that the creative intelligence that gave
birth to the galaxies and gave birth to
the planetary systems and gave birth to
life on this planet and so brought
self-awareness into the life on this
planet it knows what it's doing i choose
to trust
that
it believes that we are ready
to make this transition
and that's why it has allowed it or
supported its emergence
how i live with these things
well
it's not always been easy i mean
integrating integrating individual
sessions has always been easy because i
i followed a strict therapeutic protocol
which maximizes the procedure of clear
contact
and clean integration
and i can't emphasize this enough if you
go into psychedelics and you're in a
health or shelter environment and you're
kind of
you know at a concert or you're doing
the set in the other you don't
necessarily have clean contact and
therefore integration can be complicated
but if you have clean contact
and
and careful attention to integration
recording your experiences remembering
your experiences pondering your
experiences giving voice to them giving
poetry to them giving artistic
representation of them
you can hold on to more and more your
experiences
however i found that
i went so deep on my particular journey
i went deeper than i think was probably
wise for me to go
and what became challenging
was not to manage the pain part of the
experiences
what became challenging in the end was
managing the ecstasy
it took me so deeply into the divine
bliss and into the ecstatic nature
of
transcendent reality
that when i stopped my sessions
the physical world just began
to lose its appeal it began to lose its
luster it could not compare to the
intensity of that rapture
now i know that there are great
spiritual beings and they have always
been my mentors but there are great
beings who can live consciously in the
physical world and in this great
transcendent bliss at the same time and
and
all honor to the great ones
but in my personal case
i went deeper than i was able to sustain
the i was able to remember them i was
able to record them and hold them in my
memories
but i wasn't able to live in them 24 7
and that made living challenging
and i spent literally decades
after i stopped my sessions
actively working to integrate
those sessions into my daily life
and
writing
lsd in the mind of the universe
and going public as a psychedelic
professor
was actually part of my integration
process because one of the burdens of
doing this work was the secrecy i had to
had to use and this secrecy that allowed
me to do the work also made it
difficult for me to integrate that work
because i'm a yacker i'm a talker i love
to learn and share what i learn and here
i as a philosopher i was cultivating
these very very profound experiences but
i wasn't allowed to talk about them i
couldn't bring them to my students i
could not bring them to my colleagues at
the university
and so
beginning to sort of talk about them to
systematically integrate them into
into some rhyme and reason
in
dark knight early dawn and then in lsd
in the mind of the universe has been
one of the ways in which i have
stabilized them and integrated them
and made my peace with them
because with that book i have become
in the outside world
what i was in my inner work
and in that
there is great peace
and beyond that
it's an ongoing process i don't think i
will complete integrating this work in
this lifetime
i think what integration means changes
as the experiences go deeper what
integration means when you're working at
the personal unconscious or even the
collective unconscious
it's different than when you're going
into radically trans-temporal
trans-spatial states of consciousness so
that right now i don't think we really
even understand
fully
what entering into these states of
consciousness is doing to us
we are kind of
our early enthusiasm
for our ability to enter into these
states we haven't quite caught up with
ourselves
in that way
so we have a lot of work to do in the
area of integration
and in that context i would mention a
book called psychedelics and
psychotherapy
edited by maria papaspirou and tim reed
which is an excellent book
on specifically addressing the question
of integration
and i have an article in the book
what was the name of that book
psychotherapy
psychedelics and psychotherapy okay
and so thank you for that and do you
find just one last question do you find
[Music]
um
you know when the the ego
do you do you find yourself really being
more aware of what your state is in
each moment and choosing or is it beyond
that
again
uh i i want to go back to what i showed
in the very on the early slide the
difference between therapeutic healing
spiritual awakening and cosmological
exploration
your question is basically asking how do
these experiences affect my spiritual
condition my psycho spiritual condition
my spiritual state
if i were seeking spiritual awakening
i would do have done a completely
different protocol
i think working with low doses
would be the approach that you would
want to
use if you were really seeking what the
classic
state of enlightenment or you have to
kind of work with where the ego lives in
the world
to
realize that kind of abiding
transparency
where
you can enter into
a kind of transparency where you relax
into the present and relax into the
infinity
of eternity now and relax into the
oneness that holds all things in
existence
cosmological exploration
is a different agenda
and so
my
whatever like whatever i can integrate
from those cosmological experiences what
i can and cannot integrate
uh does not
at the spiritual awakening level
does not really
impact
the truth that emerged as in the
cosmological adventure as a philosopher
i wanted to understand how the universe
worked
and the experiences that the universe
gave me as i pursued those that question
are not experiences that i can stabilize
and integrate
24 7. some of them maybe but many of
them i can't
so i do i i was doing spiritual practice
meditation through all of my work
through all the years and continue to do
so
and one of the ways i do spiritual
practice today
is to cultivate the conscious recall of
my memories
not to try to get stuck not to be stuck
in my past
but because
my memories are of my deepest experience
of the universe
and by cultivating that conscious recall
of those experiences
it it allows me to enter into a state of
transparency where i enter into
something
approximating
uh a version
of that intimacy again
it's not an abiding 24 7 thing for me it
comes and goes
it's a daily practice thing
thank you so much
janae you have your hand up again um
yes you can hear me i mean okay
um
that kind of leads into my
question or comment
um
when you say cultivating the conscious
recall of your experiences does this
include past life does this include
everything i mean past life this life
whatever happens to be come into your
mind
when you're doing that
well
in my psychedelic work i did encounter
some former lives
i also have encountered former lives in
my uh hypnotherapy work that i did for
three years
so
but here i'm specifically focusing on my
psychedelic work
uh
and
you know it's it's interesting i don't
really focus very much on integrating my
former lives i think i somehow have done
enough house cleaning
that they are kind of okay they're kind
of comfortably tucked away
it's more of the cosmological
the memory of cosmological access
that i cultivate
i i i
because
you know what
when you look at people who
have deep spiritual experiences usually
they have them in the context of a
meditation tradition or contemplative
tradition
and they can often hold on to the
experiences that they've tapped into
sometimes not always but often
this approach is different that's why i
emphasize as a methodology chapter in
the book this is the path of temporary
immersion
it's not the
path of abiding presence it's a path of
temporary immersion you have to come to
terms with the temporariness
of the conditions that you've entered
and use those hours in order to affect a
long-term abiding change
in the condition of your of your psyche
but you can
just because
a person may have had an extraordinarily
powerful or beautiful experience or
cosmic experience doesn't mean that they
have necessarily become a beautiful or
powerful or cosmic being a lot of people
made that mistake in the early days
we've learned from that
uh we have to constantly be remembering
these are temporary experiences
what's important
is what we can do
the day after our session
right
right everything is an opportunity and
it's there
to learn in some way
as i look at it in 1998 i was just
jumping into the 98s mystery school
which you're familiar with i'm sure
and then it all went from there i had
done some preliminary work to that to
get
ready to do that
and then um but what i wanted to bring
up was reincarnation which was kind of
it's kind of and the new trajectory that
you mentioned in terms of reincarnation
uh you said um
all of the last
oh i wrote down
all of past lives fused into one
and it's kind of yeah and i've done a
lot of past life stuff i mean from there
i went through into esoteric studies and
and experiential training uh in ancient
archetypal techniques
techniques and all of that kind of
wisdom techniques and all that kind of
thing
and i did um
i did a lot of past life it wasn't
it was
because it was karmic issues taking an
event and going back and then there was
a forgiveness process at the end of that
and it's it changes the energy of it and
in changing the energy of that past life
experience so to speak it's a story
uh it it it makes a tremendous
difference because that that energy is
no longer affecting us yeah i mean it
changes you know the emotional and
everything and so and i didn't i did
quite a lot of that for myself i also
helped other people do it but
um
so
it is
it's accepting
whatever has happened in the past and if
you need if something is up and you need
to forgive it fine
um and you go from there but then you're
also saying in this lifetime uh all of
that is also a part of it
and in the
future
the future and whatever it is and so
you're expanding
uh and and another thing as i listen to
you talk and think about i'm an avid
reader and i haven't
i kind of shut down on that for a while
but um but i'm back into it now because
i'm trying to update you know myself
and so
i can learn
from reading your book from hearing you
talk
i can
i can somehow
not exactly relate to but in kind of a
way i can
you went through
all of the psychedelic
part of getting there
but i i feel an understanding of what
you're saying yes and so i sort of feel
like
i've always been a person who likes to
learn from other people's experiences
right because it takes so much less time
than me trying to go through all those
experiences i mean you went through how
many years of this and here's where you
are and now you are sharing this with
everybody so we have a place to start
yeah
and we can go from there
yeah and that's what i'm counting on i
started counting backwards on birthdays
when i from 60.
i had read something about 120 years our
bodies should be able to last so i
thought okay 60 years old if i start
counting backwards and don't get into
this senior thing of aging and dying and
everything and go backwards
and somebody said well what if you get
to zero and i said well i'll just hang
out there for however long it takes
and so that's another i mean that's just
not a hundred that's 120
and who knows you know and with the with
the current with our soft technology as
as greg braden calls it
all of that
that technology we have in within us
to
um
to repair and refresh refresh and
and rejuvenate and everything you know
i'm really focusing on that i mean so
you know it's real so yeah okay thank
you joanie um so gene do you did you
have another question i just had one
quick question
if um someone would want to do do you
recommend chris
if you're want to do your own journey uh
guided or self-guided
so i feel like i've done some of my own
and it's yeah and
sometimes it can be scary by yourself
absolutely of them
so go ahead
i really recommend if you're going to
work with psychedelics that you work
with somebody who really knows the
landscape who knows the territory
now i don't i have a particular glitch
around guided
experiences because i don't the role of
a sitter is to me is not to guide a
person but simply to help keep you safe
and focused while you do your inner work
the universe guides you
and considers role is to keep you safe
keep your protected and help keep you
focused uh and i if you're going to
amplify consciousness
uh i think it's really important to work
with somebody who
uh is has therapeutic
skills
and has knowledge of this territory
and just to loop back just a little bit
psychedelics here are not the issue
not the primary issue in fact
the the name of this book lsd in the
mind of the universe was given by the
publisher that's not what i call the
book what i call the book is diamonds
from heaven because it's a story of
initiation
psychedelics are secondary you can enter
into these states through any number of
different um
spiritual technologies spiritual
techniques and the visions that i've
shared with you today are they're not
unique to psychedelics they're they have
surfaced in spiritual traditions in
channeling traditions in indigenous
traditions
psychedelics is simply another
technology for accessing these deep
states of awareness right
so and and i would encourage you please
anybody uh
don't do what i do did and please be
careful if you're going to work with
psychedelics be very careful very
conscientious because
when you open these doors
you can get in over your head
and there are people who open these
doors and walk away
traumatized and scarred
for years
okay so i want to be very careful
there's so many uh
there's you know a psychotherapist
then there's a lot of different groups
yeah but it's hard to discern
it's where you have recommendations and
how to find your you know even
trusted friend yeah
things are changing of course as it was
mentioned earlier uh you know
mushrooms are becoming legal in various
places
hundreds and thousands of people are
being certified as past as some
psychedelic therapists the future is
opening up in ways we could never have
anticipated 15 years ago thank you
michael pollan you know and all of those
we're entering a new and exciting era
but we're still in a transition because
it's still
you know it's still on in the gray zone
[Music]
so thank you
so we're running out of time but i'm
going to have two more questions ron
so i really appreciate that last
question and your answer chris
i think this is extremely important in
this topic
and i again i had said before that i
speak from a different type of
experience than you had you were doing
science
you were tracking things very carefully
um
when i
talked about that i'd had some
experience with micro dosing before it
was called that
that was a social thing
but i will say that my last session and
i did have a few larger dose sessions
that i did
my very last session
i think satisfied me
because i did a
solitary session
and i was in
nature and i remember the emotional
place that it took me was very strong
and very poignant
i was
i had tears of both what i now know are
both joy and grief
because i was
i was really appreciating the oneness of
the magnificent beauty of all of
creation around me
and it's amazing
complexities
and at the same time i was having grief
because i was aware of what we're doing
to our world
and who we are as humans and all of our
failings
now at the moment because i didn't have
a sitter and i didn't have any science
or good counsel
uh someone keeping me safe and keeping
me on track with my experience to
make it a a
a healing experience or a therapeutic
experience
i thought i was having a bummer
because i was so emotional i didn't know
how to cope with that at the time
and uh only now in in looking back you
know
50 years ago now 40 years ago
that and having this topic become more
public and being able to read
and listen to people like you speak
about it
um
i could say that i've probably spent my
whole life integrating that you know
and uh
so it's it's been okay
but i want to really chime in in a very
simple street wise guy sort of
way to say it
this is not to be done lightly
and uh even
even with micro dosing without without
having someone be a sitter and a guide
and
and doing that i would really i would
really caution it
and then especially with the larger
doses uh i so appreciate how you went
into detail about
your answer to that last question from
i'm sorry i forgot your name as a gene
so uh
thank you chris
thank you so much for all of this
thank you
it's i've i've really appreciated it
very much
thank you
thank you georgina you get the last
question
one is really really short is uh lsd
country indicated for those people with
a diagnosis of traumatic brain injury
uh
that is a question that i'm not
competent to ask it that should really
be answered by a clinical
professional
i would imagine it would depend upon the
nature of the of the injury
but really let me i won't let's yield
that to the people who
should answer so the other question is
as you gave the
quote by the british
professional at the beginning i got
certainly the sense of lack limitation
and fear
and as we've been talking about the
precipice and what we're going into
um it sounds like those are the
consciousness lack limitation fear here
we are
how can how from your experience
what what do you say
to my interpretation of that for
all of us going into this crisis
yeah
you know some people said have said uh
if we
focus too much on the negative we
actually will bring about that negative
we will think it will bring it into
existence
and i i think i understand that and i do
understand self-generating realities and
so on and so forth
uh
but i don't think that's the primary
danger now the primary danger is not
facing those realities
and that if we don't face those
realities we can't mobilize to address
them if we don't really understand and
face
in a whole sober fashion
how over-extended
the we are with this planet we will
never be able to bring about a change a
fundamental change of our individual and
our social
way of living on the planet
so
to me
i would rather sit with people who are
facing that who are engaging the grief
of what we have done
to the species on this planet into the
planet itself
to to work with that issue and take that
all the way down to a resolution
and then move forward and through it
and there are of course joanna macy
people who are doing this type of work i
think a great deal of grief work is
needed as we confront
the damage that we've done
uh but then we move into okay
let's get on top of this let's move
forward let's make these changes that
are necessary
thank you
okay
well thank you so much i'm going to put
it back on
the gallery view
so thank you so much uh chris this is
amazing and
inspiring and
really powerful uh i thank you for your
years of work for all of us
all of humanity for us to to have this
in
insight into
what we're about
and
i'm going to read your book
both of your books which one would you
recommend i read first
well i always recommend that people
start first of all you can read lsd in
the mind of the universe
it's it's a much simpler book to read
than dark knight early dawn it does not
require darkness early dawn dark night
early dawn is pretty
academic muscled but lst in the mind of
the universe i wrote that to be
accessible to a wide range of people but
personally i find
if you don't know the literature on
reincarnation i often think it's best to
start with the life cycles
which is my book on reincarnation
because
reincarnation is fundamental
to what emerges
in lsd in the mind of the universe
okay
thank you
so thank you everyone for joining and
for your comments and questions and
thanks again chris this is wonderful i
think we might have to have you back to
talk about your book later on
so thank you so much again and thanks
everybody and we'll see you next time
thanks so much dottie and heather
much love okay yes and thank you again
heather for bringing us chris
thank you so much okay bye everyone
thank you
thank you so much bless